---
title: "Results"
order: 4
---

[Figure 1](#figure-1) is a heat map showing the relative contributions to the loading vectors for the first 30 components from an exploratory PCA procedure applied to the full data set. The loading vectors for each component seemed to capture different patterns of accelerometer activity: for example, the first component captured general activity levels through out the day, the second seemed to contrast morning with mid-day and afternoon activity, and the third contrasted early morning and evening activity with mid-day activity. Subsequent components seemed to explore activity period contrasts in finer and finer detail. Given mathematical formulation of the PCA procedure, this interpretation makes since as each ordered component describes a smaller proportion of the cumulative variance.

The first panel in [Figure 2](#figure-2) shows the results of 10-fold cross-validation applied to a model of age by component score. These results suggest little added predictive value of more than 5 principal components with increasing degredation in test set prediction after about 10 components. For the sake of parsimony of the final model, I retained only the first 5 components, representing a shrinkage factor of 0.995. [Table 1](#table-1) contains the coefficient and standard error values for the final model. All four components were significant predictors of age at the 5% l.o.s. Coefficient values are difficult to interpret directly (i.e. what does a one unit change in a component score physically correspond to?), but using the qualitative component interpretations discussed previously, the first coefficient value implies general activity is negatively associated with age. This association persists, but to lesser degree (i.e. lower coefficeint value) with each additional component.

The second and third panels of [Figure 2](#figure-2) show the cross-validation and shrinkage of the lasso regression model. Minimum MSEP was determined to be slightly higher than that of the PCA model. The lasso model was also less parsimonious than the PCA model.
